

6.- A medical clinic has a retention policy of 5 years. The records older than 4 months get accessed a few times in each quarter for reporting purposes. The clinic is using Cloud Storage to store all their records and is looking for a cost effective archiving solution. Which object lifecycle management option would you recommend to the clinic authorities?  

   * a.- Condition: creationDate:20171231 action:type:SetStorageClass, storageClass: NEARLINE  
   * b.- Condition: age:365, action:type:SetStorageClass, storageClass: COLDLINE  
   * c.- Condition: creationDate: 20171231 action:type:SetStorageClass, storageClass:COLDLINE  
   * d.- **Condition: age:365, action:type:SetStorageClass, storageClass: NEARLINE**


9.- Your client wants you to update a viewer role in your google cloud platform project using CLI. The roles has access to App Engine list and get method and you have been asked to add the cloud storage list and get permissions. The changes were reflected after your ran the command but the user complain that they are unable to view the content of Cloud Storage buckets using CLI. What could be the most appropriate reason?  

   * a.- The App Engine permission in the roles are overlapping the new permissions.  
   * b.- **The API for Cloud Storage is not enabled**
   * c.- Cloud Storage permission needs to be created and attached separately  
   * d.- The API of App Engine needs to be disabled

11.- You have a system generated log files required to be later uploaded to Google Storage in the data lake. Since the data is only accessed occasionally a few times a year by the development team for debugging and log analysis. You are looking for a cheaper storage option for log files than the standard class. Which of the following is suitable?  

* a.- **Cloud Storage Nearline**  
* b.- Cloud Storage Coldline  
* c.- BigQuery  
* d.- Filestore

12.- A system is expected to receive over 15,000 content delivery logs every minute from different web & mobile apps. Logs are received in JSON format. Due to logs being generated by different apps, each developed by adifferent team, logs do not have a fixed structure and may hold different attributes. Which of the following is a recommended storage option?  

a.- Cloud SQL  
b.- Cloud Spanner  
c.- **BigTable**
d.- Datastore

18.- Using the principle of least privilege, your colleague Bob needs to be able to create new instances on Compute Engine in project 'Project A'. How should you give him access without giving more permissions than is necessary?  

* a.- **Give Bob Compute Engine Instance Admin Role for Project A.**
* b.- Give Bob Compute Engine Admin Role for Project A.  
* c.- Create a shared VPC that Bob can access Compute resources from.  
* d.- Give Bob Project Editor IAM role for Project A.

20.- You are working for a fast growing startup which has user base in US and Europe. Until now the company had all servers in Oregon region and has now decided to launch a replica of the entire infrastructure in EU region as well. You started migration process with the least used server by creating snapshot of its disk and moving it to London region. Once the snapshot was copied you launched a fresh VM using the snapshot but discovered that few of the files were corrupted. What can be the reason?  

* a.- You cannot launch an instance from a snapshot.  
* b.- **Snapshot was taken on a running VM.**
* c.- As the region was changed all the files were not decrypted by properly which has resulted in data corruption.  
* d.- None of the above.

21.- Being a Senior Cloud Engineer of the company, you are asked to launch a managed MySQL DB using custom VPC with network range of 172.17.0.0/16 on Google Cloud keeping security at utmost priority allowing team members to access it only over private channel. You completed the setup with all the requirements, but developers are unable to access DB over the private network via application hosted on VM. What can be the reason?  

a.- You did not whitelist 172.17.0.0/16 in the firewall.  
b.- **This is a reserved IP range hence cannot be used.**
c.- You need to use proxy to connect over private IP.  
d.- None of the above.

22.- A new client has approached your company with a requirement that they want to host a serverless on Google Cloud, but before that want you to give them price estimate of running serverless application using Cloud Function. Which all parameters will you consider while calculating price using Google Pricing Calculator?  

a.- Type, Execution Time and Invocations.  
b.- Memory, CPU, Execution Time and Invocations.  
c.- **Type, Bandwidth, Execution Time and Invocations.**
d.- Memory, Execution Time and Bandwidth.

23.- Your managers want you to suggest a low-cost storage option that could be used to share read-only data across multiple instances with high performance and no edge caching. Which storage option would you suggest?  

a.- Cloud Storage  
b.- **Persistent Disk**
c.- Cloud Filestore  
d.- Firebase

38.- You created a VPC with a CIDR block of 10.40.0.0/16 with 2 subnets of CIDR range 10.40.1.0/24 and 10.40.2.0/24. What would be the default routes within this virtual private connection having the broadest CIDR range?  

a.- 10.40.0.0/0  
b.- 10.40.3.0/24  
c.- **0.0.0.0/0**
d.- 0.0.0.0/16

44.- You created a bucket in cloud storage and uploaded some files and then enabled object versioning on it. The files you have already added will have which of the following version?  

a.- 1  
b.- **Null**
c.- 0  
d.- -1  

45.- Your company has 5 TB of testing data stored in the production database of a testing tool name Quality Center. The data is being used to create a real time analytics system which is causing slow response to the tester while using the tool. What should you do the improve the load on the database?  

a.- Set up Multi AZ  
b.- **Set up a read replica**
c.- Scale the database instance
d.- Run the analytics query only weekends

46.- Your inventory application has 2 backend api servers launched using Auto Scaling Groups, you have been asked to load balance UDP, TCP and SSL traffic on ports that are not supported by the TCP proxy and SSL proxy load balancer. Which of the following Load Balancer would you use?  

a.- HTTP(S) Load Balancer  
b.- SSL Proxy Load Balancer  
c.- TCP Proxy Load Balancer  
d.- **Network Load Balancer**


47.- You are distributing the traffic between a fleet of VMs with in your VPC using Internal TCP/UDP Load Balancer. Which of the following specification does not support the selected Load Balancing Type?  

* a.- Preserved Client IP  
* b.- **Global Availability**  
* c.- Internal Load Balancing  
* d.- Any Destination Ports  

48.- You updated the metadata of an object stored in Reports-PDF bucket using google cloud SDK. You want to ensure that the metadata has been updated for that object before you confirm the changes to the development team. Which of the following google cloud SDK command would you use?  

* a.- **gsutil stat gs://Reports-PDF/[OBJECT_NAME]**
* b.- gsutil getmeta gs://Reports-PDF/[OBJECT_NAME]
* c.- gsutil setmeta gs://Reports-PDF/[OBJECT_NAME]
* d.- gsutil meta gs://Reports-PDF/[OBJECT_NAME]


51.- You have been assigned to a new health application project where the backend instances are deployed using Managed Instance Groups. There are 4 instances running. The MIG is not set to automatically scale and you are asked to resize a group to handle an expected increase in traffic. Which of the following statements about MIG is incorrect?  

* a.- If you increase the size, the managed instance group uses the current instance template to add new instances.  
* b.- The group deletes instances with a current action of DELETING, CREATING, and RECREATING before it deletes instances that are running with no scheduled actions.  
* c.- If the group is part of a backend service that has enabled connection draining, it can take up to 60 seconds after the connection draining duration has elapsed before the VM instance is removed or deleted.  
* d.- **When updating a MIG, no more than 500 instances can be specified in a single request.**


52.- Your company has an application that is deployed using serverless architecture by making use of Cloud Function as backend code, Pub/Sub, Endpoints and serve the static content via Cloud Storage. Your application is used heavily and you were informed about an issue with respect to the Cloud Function. You realised that the issue is because of invocation limit per 100 second. What is the default limit set by GCP to invoke a function per 100 second?

a.- 65  
b.- **50**  
c.- 80  
d.- 70  

53.- While migrating traffic gradually between the 2 versions of your Flexible App Engine environment, you have encountered a spike in latency for loading request. Which of the following statement could be a cause of this issue?  

a.- The warm up requests are disabled, hence the traffic migration is not working as expected  
b.- **Gradual traffic migration between the versions running in flexible environment is not supported.**  
c.- Deploying a new version with the same name as an existing version is causing the spike in latency.
d.- You can migrate the traffic gradually only for the versions that are deployed in different flexible environments.

54.- A health care company that provides medical service to the users want to track their network forensics, real-time security analysis and optimize the expense. The manager would like to track the network sent from and received by VM instances. What do you suggest they do?  

a.- Pub/Sub  
b.- **VPC Flow Logs**
c.- VPC Monitoring  
d.- Cloud Storage


55.- Your client has prepared a new company policy in which each developer must sign a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) before code changes are committed to any version control repository. You have been asked to check each commit in a repository that includes the policy and your manager has also provided you with node.js code. Which of the following services can help you implement this solution?  

a.- Task Scheduler  
b.- **Cloud Function**
c.- Pub/Sub  
d.- GKE

59.- Your company’s data center has a CIDR of 10.20.0.0/10 and your remote office has 172.50.0.0/16. You have been asked to plan a migration of the data from your company’s data center to GCP. Which of the following CIDR range would you select  

a.- 172.50.0.0/12  
b.- 10.20.0.0/16  
c.- **10.40.0..0/16**
d.- 172.40.4.0/18


63.- You are working for a healthcare industry and for compliance reason your manager has asked you to make sure that all logs are maintained for a minimum of 6 year. Which service can be used and is supported by Stackdriver Logging?  

a.- **BigQuery & GCS**
b.- BigTable & Pub/Sub  
c.- CloudSQL & GCS  
d.- Dataflow and BigTable

65.- Your client wants you to share a screenshot of all the deployments that are/were running on your Google Cloud Deployment Manager. Which command will you use to resolve this?  

a.- **gcloud deployment-manager deployments list**  
b.- gcloud deployment-manager list deployment  
c.- gcloud deployment-manager deployment list  
d.- gcloud deployment-manager list deployments


66.- You have recently joined a startup and have been asked to create a new Google Cloud account for the company along with setting up budget alarm of $100. You have setup an alarm with 40%, 60%, 90% and 100% threshold. What will happen once the threshold of 100% is reached?  

a.- A notification will be sent to Project Owner & Billing Admins.  
b.- Your project will deleted because you have depleted all your budget.  
c.- All VMs will be stopped so that you don’t exceed your budget.  
d.- **A notification will be sent to Billing Admins and Users.**


67.- You are working for a genomics company in the US that is planning to conduct data analysis on around 10 TB of data. The company would require  20 vCPUs and 60GB of RAM for the same. You have been asked to figure out the cheapest option to conduct the analysis. Which of the following would you use?  

a.- Sustained discount  
b.- Committed use discount  
c.- **Preemptible instances**  
d.- Cloud Functions  


68.- You have MS SQL Server running on a VM with n1-standard-4 machine type. From last few days, you are noticing performance degradation because of more than 95% memory utilization. CPU metrics look absolutely fine and needs no change. Your manager has asked you to increase a small amount of memory keeping cost in mind.  What is the most cost-effective approach?

a.- Change machine type to n1-highmem-4  
b.- Change machine type to n1-highcpu-10  
c.- Change machine type to n1-standard-6  
d.- **Switch to custom machine type and increase memory size**

71.- You are building up an application for your client which has API, Web, App and DB layer. The client has asked you to decouple the application so that each request is successfully acknowledged and processed by application layer. Which service will you use for the same?  

a.- App Engine
b.- Cloud Function  
c.- **Pub/Sub**  
d.- Dataproc

72.- For last few months your company was testing an ERP application built for one of its client. The product is ready to move to production but before handling over the application your manager has asked you to enable continuous backup for MySQL DB running on VM. How would you do it?  

a.- Write a cron job to backup data every minute.  
b.- Migrate to CloudSQL as there is no other option.  
c.- Create a clone of MySQL VM and write shell script to handle the replication/backup.  
d.- **Binary logging.**


73.- A new client has approached your company who wants a serverless application running on Google Cloud. They want their frontend in React and backend to be written in Python because they have in-house team which is familiar with React and Python. Which service(s) will you prefer to use?  

a.- App Engine Flexible Environment & GCS  
b.- **Cloud Function & GCS**  
c.- Cloud Function  
d.- GKE & Cloud Function  


74.- Your company is hosting 10TB of customer data in BigQuery. The CTO of company has decided to use this data and build some analytics on top of data which they have. At the end of first month there was a huge spike in the bill due to use of BigQuery and CFO was not happy with the same. He has asked you to cut down the cost. How can you achieve this?  

a.- Use GROUP BY clause.
b.- Use composite keys to query the data.  
c.- **Instead of using SELECT *, query only required columns.**
d.- Use JOINS in the query to fetch data.


78.- You are starting to work on a client’s project who is looking for a database service within Google Cloud which is horizontally scalable, supports gigabyte size of relational data and even supports ACID for reliable storage of data. Which service will you recommend?  

a.- Datastore  
b.- BigQuery  
c.- CloudSQL  
d.- **Cloud Spanner**


81.- Your Cloud Function is using python modules to connect to your SQL PostgreSQL database in your VPC. As such, how do you bundle your Cloud Function to add the dependencies?  

a.- Upload the function and import the dependencies in code so that the Cloud Function can resolve the dependencies automatically.  
b.- Upload the code through the Google Cloud console and upload the dependencies as the zip  
c.- Zip the function and the dependencies separately and upload them in Cloud Function as multi parts  
d.- **Put the function and the dependencies in one folder and zip them together**


84.- Your company is running a tightly coupled application on Google Cloud VM instances, storing each and every data on disks and auto scaling is not possible. Black Friday sale is approaching and your company has provisioned enough number of additional servers and ample amount of disk space to cater the demand but suddenly during the sale you notice that on one of the server disk space is about to hit 90% usage and your manager has asked you to add 200GB immediately.While upgrading the disk in hurry you accidently increased the size to 2000GB instead of 200GB and your manager is yelling at you to downgrade the disk. You are trying to downgrade the disk but are unable to do so. What can be the reason?  

a.- You need to stop the VM and downgrade the disk.  
b.- **You can only upgrade the disk.**
c.- Downgrading the disk is only possible via CLI/API.  
d.- None of the above.


86.- Your company has received a new project where it needs to migrate on-premise servers and data to Google Cloud gradually but until then you need to setup a VPN tunnel between on-premise and Google Cloud. Which service will you use in conjunction with Cloud VPN for a smooth setup?  

a.- Cloud CDN  
b.- Cloud NAT  
c.- Cloud Run  
d.- **Cloud Router**

88.- Your client is planning to deploy an application on Google App Engine and have a requirement to store 1TB of data in schemaless, strongly consistent, ACID compliant database solution. Which of the following would you consider for this?  

a.- Google Cloud SQL  
b.- Google Cloud Storage  
c.- **Google Cloud Datastore**
d.- Google Cloud Bigtable


89.- You created a snapshot schedule and attached it to a disk for automating backup of your VM. Few days later when you were looking at the snapshots you notice that the snapshot size is different for each and every snapshot. What can be the reason?  

a.- Snapshots are incremental/point-in-time copies of VM.  
b.- Raise a ticket with the Google support regarding the same.  
c.- **It is just a UI bug which is not yet solved by Google.**
d.- Increase the timeout window so that disk is backed up properly.  


90.- A team of developers has been working on a Java 8 application on their local machine but company has now decided to create Windows VM for team and let them work on VM instead of working on local machine. Additionally, your manager has asked to send all stack traces to a common place. Which service would you use to meet the following requirement?  

a.- Stackdriver Logging  
b.- Stackdriver Profiler  
c.- **Stackdriver Error Reporting**  
d.- Stackdriver Debugger



92.- Your project manager wants you to maintain persistent backup of your app compute instance on a daily basis with auto delete in 7 days, to make it hassle free you use google console for scheduling backups. The backup schedule “daily-backup” was created successfully but backup was not generated automatically. Suggest the step that you missed performing after creating the backup schedule?  

a.- Create a gcloud script in the VM and point it to backup schedule daily-backup create above  
b.- **Add snapshot schedule daily-backup on the app disk**
c.- Select the existing snapshot and add daily-backup schedule to auto generate the backup everyday  
d.- Edit VM instance, go to snapshot schedule and select daily-backup to enable backup for that instance.
 

94.- You have an application running on Google Cloud VM written in C#.Net from last few weeks. Suddenly you experience elevated latency and poor performance among application endpoints. Which service can help you troubleshoot this issue?  

a.- Stackdriver Profiler  
b.- Stackdriver Monitoring  
c.- Activity Logs  
d.- **Stackdriver Trace**


96.- You are working on a project whose development phase has been completed and manager has asked you to create a new project for UAT environment which should be clone of development environment. Dev environment consists of 5 VMs which needs to be replicated to UAT environment. How can you achieve this?  

a.- Launch 5 VMs from scratch and install all the libraries present on dev VMs.  
b.- Select an instance, click on Actions and use migrate option to launch VM is another project.  
c.- **Create custom image of each instance in dev environment and while launching VMs in UAT environment under boot disk select Custom images, select your project and choose the relevant image.**
d.- None of the above.


97.- Suggest the maximum number of containers you can launch within a GKE cluster:  

a.- **300,000**
b.- 500,000  
c.- 100,000  
d.- Unlimited

98.- You are a Jr. Cloud Engineer at John Smith Co. and you were informed about an error “failed to negotiate an api version” while running kubectl command on GCP shell. Which command would you suggest to resolve this issue initially?  

a.- **gcloud auth application-default login**
b.- gcloud container clusters get-credentials [CLUSTER_NAME]  
c.- sudo gcloud components install kubectl  
d.- gcloud container clusters describe cluster-name  

99.- You are appointed as a head of infrastructure security and the first thing you are asked is to create few IAM users following best security practices. How would you ensure that these users are only able to launch a new instance and list them?  

a.- Create Compute Editor role and attach to the users.  
b.- Attach Project Editor role to users.  
c.- **Create custom role with specific permissions and attach it to users.**
d.- Create a service account with required permissions and attach it to users.

113.-Your company has decided to build an in-house application for payroll processing, and you have been assigned task to create a VM, Cloud SQL DB and bucket for the same. While testing the application, developers found that they couldn’t upload files to bucket. How would you fix it?  

a.- Enable ufw on linux instance and allow port 443.  
b.- Check if the default service account is attached to VM, if not edit the instance and attach it.  
c.- Check if egress firewall rules are applied to instance allowing connection between bucket and VM.  
d.- **None of the above.**

114.- In VPC, which firewall rules are created by default while creating an automatic custom?  

a.- **Deny all ingress, allow all egress**
b.- Deny all ingress and egress  
c.- Allow SSH, RDP, HTTP, HTTPS  
d.- Allow SSH, RDP, ICMP and internal traffic


116.- Your company has been working on an application for the last three months and is now ready to roll out the same to the UAT environment for beta testing. Your manager has asked you to create a replica of dev project. Which is the best way to clone/replicate the existing project?  

a.- Go to Manage resources under IAM & admin section, select the project you want to clone and click on the Clone button on top.  
b.- Go to the dashboard, click on three vertical dots within Project info and click Clone Project.  
c.- Execute gcloud command: gcloud project clone-project --source Eazeteachs-dev-prj --destination Eazeteachs-uat-prj.  
d.- **None of the above**

117.- You are a Google Cloud Engineer and assigned to set up a project for the team of four members. You need to grant only general permissions for all the resources of the project. You decided to grant a primitive role to each person for different levels of access on the basis of their responsibilities in the project. What is not considered as a primitive role in the Google Cloud Platform console?

a.- Viewer  
b.- Editor  
c.- Owner  
d.- **Publisher**

121.-You have set a firewall rule that will permit inbound connections to a VM instance named Eazeteachserver-2. You want to apply this rule only if there is not another rule that would deny that traffic. What priority would you give to this rule?  

a.- 1000  
b.- 1  
c.- **65535**
d.- 0


123.- You work for a retail company that has a busy online store. As you are approaching New Year, you find that your e-store is getting more and more traffic. You ensure that your web servers are behind a managed instance group. However, you notice that the web tier is frequently scaling, sometimes multiple times in an hour. You need to prevent the instance group from scaling up and down so rapidly. Which of the following options would help you to achieve this?  

a.- Change the auto scaling metric to use multiple metrics instead of just one metric.  
b.- Reduce the number of maximum instance count.  
c.- Associate a health check with instance group.  
d.- **Increase the cool down period.**


126.- You want your application hosted on a VM to fetch metadata of that instance. Which command will help you to fetch it?  

a.- curl metadata.google.internal/compute-metadata/v1/  
b.- curl <instance-private-ip>/metadata/v1/  
c.- **curl metadata.google.internal/computeMetadata/v1/**
d.- curl internal.googleapi.com/computeMetadata/v1/


